docs/framework/vue/community/community-projects.md, before:

---
id: community-projects
title: Community Projects
---

There are lots of community projects that build on top of Vue Query and use it to provide additional functionality or enhanced developer experience. Projects are listed in alphabetical order. If you have a project that you would like to add to this list, please open a PR!

> Please note that these projects are entirely community maintained. If you have questions about these projects, please reach out to the project maintainers.

## Query Key factory

A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in `@tanstack/query`

Link: https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory

## Model: Unified Data Source

Zova provides the Model mechanism based on Vue Query in the MVC architecture, encapsulating unified data sources through Model, thereby standardizing the use of data, simplifying the code structure, and improving the maintainability of the code

Link: https://github.com/cabloy/zova
Docs: https://zova.js.org/guide/techniques/model/introduction.html

## Normy

Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries

Link: https://github.com/klis87/normy

## Query Rewind

Time travel and visualize state during development

Link: https://reactqueryrewind.com/

Commit message:

docs: add Chrome extension information for TanStack Query devtools across multiple frameworks (#9275)

docs/framework/vue/community/community-projects.md, after:

---
id: community-projects
title: Community Projects
---

There are lots of community projects that build on top of Vue Query and use it to provide additional functionality or enhanced developer experience. Projects are listed in alphabetical order. If you have a project that you would like to add to this list, please open a PR!

> Please note that these projects are entirely community maintained. If you have questions about these projects, please reach out to the project maintainers.

## DevTools Chrome Extension

A Chrome browser extension that provides devtools for TanStack Query, allowing you to inspect and debug queries, mutations, and cache state directly in Chrome DevTools.

Link: https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/tanstack-query-devtools/annajfchloimdhceglpgglpeepfghfai

## Query Key factory

A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in `@tanstack/query`

Link: https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory

## Model: Unified Data Source

Zova provides the Model mechanism based on Vue Query in the MVC architecture, encapsulating unified data sources through Model, thereby standardizing the use of data, simplifying the code structure, and improving the maintainability of the code

Link: https://github.com/cabloy/zova
Docs: https://zova.js.org/guide/techniques/model/introduction.html

## Normy

Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries

Link: https://github.com/klis87/normy

## Query Rewind

Time travel and visualize state during development

Link: https://reactqueryrewind.com/
