docs/framework/angular/reference/functions/providetanstackquery.md, before:

---
id: provideTanStackQuery
title: provideTanStackQuery
---

# Function: provideTanStackQuery()

```ts
function provideTanStackQuery(queryClient, ...features): Provider[]
```

Sets up providers necessary to enable TanStack Query functionality for Angular applications.

Allows to configure a `QueryClient` and optional features such as developer tools.

**Example - standalone**

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

bootstrapApplication(AppComponent, {
  providers: [provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient())],
})
```

**Example - NgModule-based**

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient())],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

You can also enable optional developer tools by adding `withDevtools`. By
default the tools will then be loaded when your app is in development mode.

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  withDevtools
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

bootstrapApplication(AppComponent,
  {
    providers: [
      provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient(), withDevtools())
    ]
  }
)
```

**Example: using an InjectionToken**

```ts
export const MY_QUERY_CLIENT = new InjectionToken('', {
  factory: () => new QueryClient(),
})

// In a lazy loaded route or lazy loaded component's providers array:
providers: [provideTanStackQuery(MY_QUERY_CLIENT)]
```

## Parameters

### queryClient

A `QueryClient` instance, or an `InjectionToken` which provides a `QueryClient`.

`QueryClient` | `InjectionToken`\<`QueryClient`\>

### features

...[`QueryFeatures`](../../type-aliases/queryfeatures.md)[]

Optional features to configure additional Query functionality.

## Returns

`Provider`[]

A set of providers to set up TanStack Query.

## See

- https://tanstack.com/query/v5/docs/framework/angular/quick-start
- withDevtools

## Defined in

[providers.ts:118](https://github.com/TanStack/query/blob/main/packages/angular-query-experimental/src/providers.ts#L118)

Commit message:

feat(angular-query): move devtools to conditional sub-paths (#9270)
* feat(angular-query-devtools): move devtools to conditional sub-paths, improves tree shaking and dependency injection

* Fix compatibility with moduleResolution node

* ci: apply automated fixes

* fix preview release for angular-query

* Fix angular-query preview release

* Revert some changes made obsolete by better Vite based alternative

* Update export paths

* Fix production exports and publishconfig

* knip config

* remove postpack

* Generate API reference docs

* type declarations in correct directory

* Update documentation

* knip config

* Optional core devtools dependency

* ci: apply automated fixes

* regenerate api reference docs

* ci: apply automated fixes

* ci: apply automated fixes (attempt 2/3)

* regenerate api reference docs

* formatting

* apply coderabbit suggestions

* Improve unit tests

* docs

---------

Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/framework/angular/reference/functions/providetanstackquery.md, after:

---
id: provideTanStackQuery
title: provideTanStackQuery
---

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: this page is autogenerated from the type comments -->

# Function: provideTanStackQuery()

```ts
function provideTanStackQuery(queryClient, ...features): Provider[]
```

Defined in: [providers.ts:105](https://github.com/TanStack/query/blob/main/packages/angular-query-experimental/src/providers.ts#L105)

Sets up providers necessary to enable TanStack Query functionality for Angular applications.

Allows to configure a `QueryClient` and optional features such as developer tools.

**Example - standalone**

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

bootstrapApplication(AppComponent, {
  providers: [provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient())],
})
```

**Example - NgModule-based**

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient())],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

You can also enable optional developer tools by adding `withDevtools`. By
default the tools will then be loaded when your app is in development mode.

```ts
import {
  provideTanStackQuery,
  withDevtools
  QueryClient,
} from '@tanstack/angular-query-experimental'

bootstrapApplication(AppComponent,
  {
    providers: [
      provideTanStackQuery(new QueryClient(), withDevtools())
    ]
  }
)
```

**Example: using an InjectionToken**

```ts
export const MY_QUERY_CLIENT = new InjectionToken('', {
  factory: () => new QueryClient(),
})

// In a lazy loaded route or lazy loaded component's providers array:
providers: [provideTanStackQuery(MY_QUERY_CLIENT)]
```

Using an InjectionToken for the QueryClient is an advanced optimization which allows TanStack Query to be absent from the main application bundle.
This can be beneficial if you want to include TanStack Query on lazy loaded routes only while still sharing a `QueryClient`.

Note that this is a small optimization and for most applications it's preferable to provide the `QueryClient` in the main application config.

## Parameters

### queryClient

A `QueryClient` instance, or an `InjectionToken` which provides a `QueryClient`.

`QueryClient` | `InjectionToken`\<`QueryClient`\>

### features

...[`QueryFeatures`](../../type-aliases/queryfeatures.md)[]

Optional features to configure additional Query functionality.

## Returns

`Provider`[]

A set of providers to set up TanStack Query.

## See

- https://tanstack.com/query/v5/docs/framework/angular/quick-start
- withDevtools
