docs/framework/react/reference/useQueries.md, before:

---
id: useQueries
title: useQueries
---

The `useQueries` hook can be used to fetch a variable number of queries:

```tsx
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const results = useQueries({
  queries: ids.map((id) => ({
    queryKey: ['post', id],
    queryFn: () => fetchPost(id),
    staleTime: Infinity,
  })),
})
```

**Options**

The `useQueries` hook accepts an options object with a **queries** key whose value is an array with query option objects identical to the [`useQuery` hook](./useQuery.md) (excluding the `queryClient` option - because the `QueryClient` can be passed in on the top level).

- `queryClient?: QueryClient`
  - Use this to provide a custom QueryClient. Otherwise, the one from the nearest context will be used.
- `combine?: (result: UseQueriesResults) => TCombinedResult`
  - Use this to combine the results of the queries into a single value.
- `structuralSharing?: boolean`
  - Set this to `false` to disable structural sharing between query results when `combine` is provided.
  - Defaults to `true`.

> Having the same query key more than once in the array of query objects may cause some data to be shared between queries. To avoid this, consider de-duplicating the queries and map the results back to the desired structure.

**placeholderData**

The `placeholderData` option exists for `useQueries` as well, but it doesn't get information passed from previously rendered Queries like `useQuery` does, because the input to `useQueries` can be a different number of Queries on each render.

**Returns**

The `useQueries` hook returns an array with all the query results. The order returned is the same as the input order.

## Combine

If you want to combine `data` (or other Query information) from the results into a single value, you can use the `combine` option. The result will be structurally shared to be as referentially stable as possible. If you want to disable structural sharing for the combined result, you can set the `structuralSharing` option to `false`.

```tsx
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const combinedQueries = useQueries({
  queries: ids.map((id) => ({
    queryKey: ['post', id],
    queryFn: () => fetchPost(id),
  })),
  combine: (results) => {
    return {
      data: results.map((result) => result.data),
      pending: results.some((result) => result.isPending),
    }
  },
})
```

In the above example, `combinedQueries` will be an object with a `data` and a `pending` property. Note that all other properties of the Query results will be lost.

### Memoization

The `combine` function will only re-run if:

- the `combine` function itself changed referentially
- any of the query results changed

This means that an inlined `combine` function, as shown above, will run on every render. To avoid this, you can wrap the `combine` function in `useCallback`, or extract it to a stable function reference if it doesn't have any dependencies.

Commit message:

Refactor structuralSharing for useQueries to accept a function.
Match the useQuery logic and allow a function to override the structural
sharing.

docs/framework/react/reference/useQueries.md, after:

---
id: useQueries
title: useQueries
---

The `useQueries` hook can be used to fetch a variable number of queries:

```tsx
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const results = useQueries({
  queries: ids.map((id) => ({
    queryKey: ['post', id],
    queryFn: () => fetchPost(id),
    staleTime: Infinity,
  })),
})
```

**Options**

The `useQueries` hook accepts an options object with a **queries** key whose value is an array with query option objects identical to the [`useQuery` hook](./useQuery.md) (excluding the `queryClient` option - because the `QueryClient` can be passed in on the top level).

- `queryClient?: QueryClient`
  - Use this to provide a custom QueryClient. Otherwise, the one from the nearest context will be used.
- `combine?: (result: UseQueriesResults) => TCombinedResult`
  - Use this to combine the results of the queries into a single value.
- `structuralSharing?: boolean | ((oldData: unknown | undefined, newData: unknown) => unknown)`
  - Optional
  - Defaults to `true`.
  - If set to false, structural sharing between query results will be disabled.
  - If set to a function, the old and new data values will be passed through this function, which should combine them into resolved data for the query. This way, you can retain references from the old data to improve performance even when that data contains non-serializable values.

> Having the same query key more than once in the array of query objects may cause some data to be shared between queries. To avoid this, consider de-duplicating the queries and map the results back to the desired structure.

**placeholderData**

The `placeholderData` option exists for `useQueries` as well, but it doesn't get information passed from previously rendered Queries like `useQuery` does, because the input to `useQueries` can be a different number of Queries on each render.

**Returns**

The `useQueries` hook returns an array with all the query results. The order returned is the same as the input order.

## Combine

If you want to combine `data` (or other Query information) from the results into a single value, you can use the `combine` option. The result will be structurally shared to be as referentially stable as possible. If you want to disable structural sharing for the combined result, you can set the `structuralSharing` option to `false`, or provide a custom function to implement your own structural sharing logic.

```tsx
const ids = [1, 2, 3]
const combinedQueries = useQueries({
  queries: ids.map((id) => ({
    queryKey: ['post', id],
    queryFn: () => fetchPost(id),
  })),
  combine: (results) => {
    return {
      data: results.map((result) => result.data),
      pending: results.some((result) => result.isPending),
    }
  },
})
```

In the above example, `combinedQueries` will be an object with a `data` and a `pending` property. Note that all other properties of the Query results will be lost.

### Memoization

The `combine` function will only re-run if:

- the `combine` function itself changed referentially
- any of the query results changed

This means that an inlined `combine` function, as shown above, will run on every render. To avoid this, you can wrap the `combine` function in `useCallback`, or extract it to a stable function reference if it doesn't have any dependencies.
