docs/community-resources.md, before:

---
title: Community Resources
articles:
  [
    {
      title: "TkDodo's Blog Posts",
      url: 'https://tkdodo.eu/blog/practical-react-query',
      description: 'TkDodo, a maintainer of TanStack Query, writes a series of blog posts about the library. These articles offer general best practices and often present opinionated perspectives on using TanStack Query.',
    },
  ]
media:
  [
    {
      title: 'React Query: It’s Time to Break up with your Global State! – Tanner Linsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=seU46c6Jz7E',
      description: 'Get the lowdown on “global state” and how React Query can help you fetch, cache and manage your asynchronous data with a fraction of the effort and code that you’re used to',
    },
    {
      title: 'All About React Query (with Tanner Linsley) — Learn With Jason',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DocXo3gqGdI',
      description: 'Learn all about React Query with its creator Tanner Linsley.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Hooks for Fetching with ReactQuery Creator Tanner Linsley aka @tannerlinsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PPvWXbSCtBU',
      description: 'Learn how React Query simplifies asynchronous data fetching in React applications.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query - Open Source Friday stream with Tanner Linsley from',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3cJDT3j19I',
      description: 'An Open Source Friday stream featuring Tanner Linsley.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Presentation - Tanner Linsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ehibado6rU',
      description: 'Tanner Linsley gives a talk to Lambda School students about the React Query.',
    },
    {
      title: 'TanStack Query v4 (with Dominik Dorfmeister) — Learn With Jason',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPPQm0dvEes',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister covering TanStack Query v4.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Exposed by Its Maintainer',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-RTNnn9GR8',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister explores the less favorable aspects of React Query and situations where it may not be the best fit.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query API Design: Lessons Learned - Dominik Dorfmeister',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3PxErcKeAI',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister walks through some of the API design choices that were made in React Query to get to the DX.',
    },
  ]
utilities:
  [
    {
      title: 'batshit',
      url: 'https://github.com/yornaath/batshit',
      description: 'A batch manager that will deduplicate and batch requests for a certain data type made within a window',
    },
    {
      title: 'GraphQL Code Generator',
      url: 'https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen',
      description: 'Generate React Query hooks from your GraphQL schema',
    },

    {
      title: 'Http-wizard',
      url: 'https://http-wizard.com',
      description: 'End-to-end type-safe Fastify API with typeScript magic ✨',
    },

    {
      title: 'Normy',
      url: 'https://github.com/klis87/normy',
      description: 'Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries',
    },

    {
      title: 'Orval',
      url: 'https://orval.dev/',
      description: 'Generate TypeScript client from OpenAPI specifications.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Query Key Factory',
      url: 'https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory',
      description: 'A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in @tanstack/query',
    },

    {
      title: 'React Query Kit',
      url: 'https://github.com/liaoliao666/react-query-kit',
      description: '🕊️ A toolkit for ReactQuery that makes ReactQuery hooks reusable and typesafe',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Rewind',
      url: 'https://reactqueryrewind.com/',
      description: 'Time travel and visualize state during development',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Swagger',
      url: 'https://github.com/Shaddix/react-query-swagger',
      description: 'Generate React Query hooks based on Swagger API definitions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Suspensive React Query',
      url: 'https://suspensive.org/docs/react-query/motivation',
      description: 'Enhances React Query with Suspense support, allowing for simpler and more declarative data fetching',
    },
    {
      title: 'tRPC',
      url: 'https://trpc.io/',
      description: 'End-to-end typesafe APIs made easy',
    },
  ]
others:
  [
    {
      title: 'Atomic CRM',
      url: 'https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/',
      description: 'A full-featured CRM built with React, react-admin, and Supabase.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Blitz',
      url: 'https://blitzjs.com/',
      description: 'The Missing Fullstack Toolkit for Next.js',
    },
    {
      title: 'Connect',
      url: 'https://connectrpc.com/docs',
      description: 'A family of libraries for building browser and gRPC-compatible HTTP APIs.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Hey API',
      url: 'https://heyapi.dev/openapi-ts/plugins/tanstack-query',
      description: 'The OpenAPI to TypeScript codegen. Generate clients, SDKs, validators, and more.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Kubb',
      url: 'https://www.kubb.dev/',
      description: 'Generate SDKs for all your APIs',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI codegen',
      url: 'https://github.com/fabien0102/openapi-codegen',
      description: 'A tool for generating code based on an OpenAPI schema.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI Qraft React',
      url: 'https://github.com/OpenAPI-Qraft/openapi-qraft',
      description: 'Generate type-safe API clients and Hooks for TanStack Query directly from OpenAPI Documents.Zero-runtime overhead, Proxy-based design, seamless SSR support, and full TanStack Query functionality.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI React Query codegen',
      url: 'https://github.com/7nohe/openapi-react-query-codegen',
      description: 'Generate TanStack Query hooks based on an OpenAPI specification file.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI zod client',
      url: 'https://github.com/astahmer/openapi-zod-client',
      description: 'Generate a zodios client from an OpenAPI specification',
    },
    {
      title: 'openapi-fetch',
      url: 'https://openapi-ts.dev/openapi-react-query/',
      description: 'A 2KB min, typesafe fetch wrapper that uses static TypeScript type inference and no runtime checks.',
    },
    {
      title: 'oRPC',
      url: 'https://orpc.unnoq.com/docs/integrations/tanstack-query',
      description: 'Easy to build APIs that are end-to-end type-safe and adhere to OpenAPI standards.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Rapini',
      url: 'https://github.com/rametta/rapini',
      description: '🥬 OpenAPI to React Query (or SWR) & Axios',
    },
    {
      title: 'ts-rest',
      url: 'https://ts-rest.com/',
      description: 'Incrementally adoptable type-safety for your new and existing APIs',
    },
    {
      title: 'wagmi',
      url: 'https://wagmi.sh/',
      description: 'React Hooks for Ethereum based on @tanstack/react-query',
    },
    {
      title: 'zodios',
      url: 'https://www.zodios.org/',
      description: 'End-to-end typesafe REST API toolbox',
    },
  ]
---

Commit message:

docs(community-projects): Add Tanstack Query Visualizer to the list of community projects

docs/community-resources.md, after:

---
title: Community Resources
articles:
  [
    {
      title: "TkDodo's Blog Posts",
      url: 'https://tkdodo.eu/blog/practical-react-query',
      description: 'TkDodo, a maintainer of TanStack Query, writes a series of blog posts about the library. These articles offer general best practices and often present opinionated perspectives on using TanStack Query.',
    },
  ]
media:
  [
    {
      title: 'React Query: It’s Time to Break up with your Global State! – Tanner Linsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=seU46c6Jz7E',
      description: 'Get the lowdown on “global state” and how React Query can help you fetch, cache and manage your asynchronous data with a fraction of the effort and code that you’re used to',
    },
    {
      title: 'All About React Query (with Tanner Linsley) — Learn With Jason',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DocXo3gqGdI',
      description: 'Learn all about React Query with its creator Tanner Linsley.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Hooks for Fetching with ReactQuery Creator Tanner Linsley aka @tannerlinsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PPvWXbSCtBU',
      description: 'Learn how React Query simplifies asynchronous data fetching in React applications.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query - Open Source Friday stream with Tanner Linsley from',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3cJDT3j19I',
      description: 'An Open Source Friday stream featuring Tanner Linsley.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Presentation - Tanner Linsley',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_ehibado6rU',
      description: 'Tanner Linsley gives a talk to Lambda School students about the React Query.',
    },
    {
      title: 'TanStack Query v4 (with Dominik Dorfmeister) — Learn With Jason',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPPQm0dvEes',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister covering TanStack Query v4.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Exposed by Its Maintainer',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-RTNnn9GR8',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister explores the less favorable aspects of React Query and situations where it may not be the best fit.',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query API Design: Lessons Learned - Dominik Dorfmeister',
      url: 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3PxErcKeAI',
      description: 'Dominik Dorfmeister walks through some of the API design choices that were made in React Query to get to the DX.',
    },
  ]
utilities:
  [
    {
      title: 'batshit',
      url: 'https://github.com/yornaath/batshit',
      description: 'A batch manager that will deduplicate and batch requests for a certain data type made within a window',
    },
    {
      title: 'GraphQL Code Generator',
      url: 'https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen',
      description: 'Generate React Query hooks from your GraphQL schema',
    },

    {
      title: 'Http-wizard',
      url: 'https://http-wizard.com',
      description: 'End-to-end type-safe Fastify API with typeScript magic ✨',
    },

    {
      title: 'Normy',
      url: 'https://github.com/klis87/normy',
      description: 'Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries',
    },

    {
      title: 'Orval',
      url: 'https://orval.dev/',
      description: 'Generate TypeScript client from OpenAPI specifications.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Query Key Factory',
      url: 'https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory',
      description: 'A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in @tanstack/query',
    },

    {
      title: 'React Query Kit',
      url: 'https://github.com/liaoliao666/react-query-kit',
      description: '🕊️ A toolkit for ReactQuery that makes ReactQuery hooks reusable and typesafe',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Rewind',
      url: 'https://reactqueryrewind.com/',
      description: 'Time travel and visualize state during development',
    },
    {
      title: 'React Query Swagger',
      url: 'https://github.com/Shaddix/react-query-swagger',
      description: 'Generate React Query hooks based on Swagger API definitions',
    },
    {
      title: 'Suspensive React Query',
      url: 'https://suspensive.org/docs/react-query/motivation',
      description: 'Enhances React Query with Suspense support, allowing for simpler and more declarative data fetching',
    },
    {
      title: 'tRPC',
      url: 'https://trpc.io/',
      description: 'End-to-end typesafe APIs made easy',
    },
  ]
others:
  [
    {
      title: 'Atomic CRM',
      url: 'https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/',
      description: 'A full-featured CRM built with React, react-admin, and Supabase.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Blitz',
      url: 'https://blitzjs.com/',
      description: 'The Missing Fullstack Toolkit for Next.js',
    },
    {
      title: 'Connect',
      url: 'https://connectrpc.com/docs',
      description: 'A family of libraries for building browser and gRPC-compatible HTTP APIs.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Hey API',
      url: 'https://heyapi.dev/openapi-ts/plugins/tanstack-query',
      description: 'The OpenAPI to TypeScript codegen. Generate clients, SDKs, validators, and more.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Kubb',
      url: 'https://www.kubb.dev/',
      description: 'Generate SDKs for all your APIs',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI codegen',
      url: 'https://github.com/fabien0102/openapi-codegen',
      description: 'A tool for generating code based on an OpenAPI schema.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI Qraft React',
      url: 'https://github.com/OpenAPI-Qraft/openapi-qraft',
      description: 'Generate type-safe API clients and Hooks for TanStack Query directly from OpenAPI Documents.Zero-runtime overhead, Proxy-based design, seamless SSR support, and full TanStack Query functionality.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI React Query codegen',
      url: 'https://github.com/7nohe/openapi-react-query-codegen',
      description: 'Generate TanStack Query hooks based on an OpenAPI specification file.',
    },
    {
      title: 'OpenAPI zod client',
      url: 'https://github.com/astahmer/openapi-zod-client',
      description: 'Generate a zodios client from an OpenAPI specification',
    },
    {
      title: 'openapi-fetch',
      url: 'https://openapi-ts.dev/openapi-react-query/',
      description: 'A 2KB min, typesafe fetch wrapper that uses static TypeScript type inference and no runtime checks.',
    },
    {
      title: 'oRPC',
      url: 'https://orpc.unnoq.com/docs/integrations/tanstack-query',
      description: 'Easy to build APIs that are end-to-end type-safe and adhere to OpenAPI standards.',
    },
    {
      title: 'Rapini',
      url: 'https://github.com/rametta/rapini',
      description: '🥬 OpenAPI to React Query (or SWR) & Axios',
    },
    {
      title: 'Tanstack Query Visualizer',
      url: 'https://tanstack-query-visualizer.sofi.coop/',
      description: 'An interactive sandbox that visualizes the relationship between mutations and query keys.',
    },
    {
      title: 'ts-rest',
      url: 'https://ts-rest.com/',
      description: 'Incrementally adoptable type-safety for your new and existing APIs',
    },
    {
      title: 'wagmi',
      url: 'https://wagmi.sh/',
      description: 'React Hooks for Ethereum based on @tanstack/react-query',
    },
    {
      title: 'zodios',
      url: 'https://www.zodios.org/',
      description: 'End-to-end typesafe REST API toolbox',
    },
  ]
---
