docs/framework/react/community/community-projects.md, before:

---
id: community-projects
title: Community Projects
---

There are lots of community projects that build on top of React Query and use it to provide additional functionality or enhanced developer experience. Projects are listed in alphabetical order. If you have a project that you would like to add to this list, please open a PR!

> Please note that these projects are entirely community maintained. If you have questions about these projects, please reach out to the project maintainers.

## Atomic CRM

A full-featured CRM built with React, react-admin, and Supabase.

Link: https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/

## batshit

A batch manager that will deduplicate and batch requests for a certain data type made within a window

Link: https://github.com/yornaath/batshit

## Blitz

The Missing Fullstack Toolkit for Next.js

Link: https://blitzjs.com/

## Connect

A family of libraries for building building browser and gRPC-compatible HTTP APIs.

Link: https://connectrpc.com/docs

## DevTools Chrome Extension

A Chrome browser extension that provides devtools for TanStack Query, allowing you to inspect and debug queries, mutations, and cache state directly in Chrome DevTools.

Link: https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/tanstack-query-devtools/annajfchloimdhceglpgglpeepfghfai

## GraphQL Code Generator

Generate React Query hooks from your GraphQL schema

Link: https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen

## Hey API

The OpenAPI to TypeScript codegen. Generate clients, SDKs, validators, and more.

Link: https://heyapi.dev/openapi-ts/plugins/tanstack-query

## Http-wizard

End-to-end type-safe Fastify API with typeScript magic ✨

Link: https://http-wizard.com

## Kubb

Generate SDKs for all your APIs

Link: https://www.kubb.dev/

## NgQuery

Query adapter for Angular

Link: https://ngneat.github.io/query/

## Normy

Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries

Link: https://github.com/klis87/normy

## OpenAPI codegen

A tool for generating code based on an OpenAPI schema.

Link: https://github.com/fabien0102/openapi-codegen

## OpenAPI Qraft React

Generate type-safe API clients and Hooks for TanStack Query directly from OpenAPI Documents.
Zero-runtime overhead, Proxy-based design, seamless SSR support, and full TanStack Query functionality.

Link: https://github.com/OpenAPI-Qraft/openapi-qraft

## OpenAPI React Query codegen

Generate TanStack Query hooks based on an OpenAPI specification file.

Link: https://github.com/7nohe/openapi-react-query-codegen

### OpenAPI zod client

Generate a zodios client from an OpenAPI specification

Link: https://github.com/astahmer/openapi-zod-client

## openapi-fetch

A 2KB min, typesafe fetch wrapper that uses static TypeScript type inference and no runtime checks.

Link: https://openapi-ts.dev/openapi-react-query/

## oRPC

Easy to build APIs that are end-to-end type-safe and adhere to OpenAPI standards.

Link: https://orpc.unnoq.com/docs/integrations/tanstack-query

## Orval

Generate TypeScript client from OpenAPI specifications

Link: https://orval.dev/

## Query Key factory

A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in `@tanstack/query`

Link: https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory

## Rapini

🥬 OpenAPI to React Query (or SWR) & Axios

Link: https://github.com/rametta/rapini

## React Query Kit

🕊️ A toolkit for ReactQuery that makes ReactQuery hooks reusable and typesafe

Link: https://github.com/liaoliao666/react-query-kit

## React Query Rewind

Time travel and visualize state during development

Link: https://reactqueryrewind.com/

## React Query Swagger

Generate React Query hooks based on Swagger API definitions

Link: https://github.com/Shaddix/react-query-swagger

## Suspensive React Query

Enhances React Query with Suspense support, allowing for simpler and more declarative data fetching

Link: https://suspensive.org/docs/react-query/motivation

## tRPC

End-to-end typesafe APIs made easy

Link: https://trpc.io/

## ts-rest

Incrementally adoptable type-safety for your new and existing APIs

Link: https://ts-rest.com/

## wagmi

React Hooks for Ethereum based on `@tanstack/react-query`

Link: https://wagmi.sh/

## zodios

End-to-end typesafe REST API toolbox

Link: https://www.zodios.org/

Commit message:

Add Firefox and Edge browser extension support to devtools docs
- Add browser logos for Chrome, Firefox, and Edge
- Update devtools documentation across all frameworks to include Firefox and Edge extensions
- Replace Chrome-only messaging with multi-browser support
- Add inline browser icons with links to respective extension stores

docs/framework/react/community/community-projects.md, after:

---
id: community-projects
title: Community Projects
---

There are lots of community projects that build on top of React Query and use it to provide additional functionality or enhanced developer experience. Projects are listed in alphabetical order. If you have a project that you would like to add to this list, please open a PR!

> Please note that these projects are entirely community maintained. If you have questions about these projects, please reach out to the project maintainers.

## Atomic CRM

A full-featured CRM built with React, react-admin, and Supabase.

Link: https://marmelab.com/atomic-crm/

## batshit

A batch manager that will deduplicate and batch requests for a certain data type made within a window

Link: https://github.com/yornaath/batshit

## Blitz

The Missing Fullstack Toolkit for Next.js

Link: https://blitzjs.com/

## Connect

A family of libraries for building building browser and gRPC-compatible HTTP APIs.

Link: https://connectrpc.com/docs

## DevTools Browser Extensions

Browser extensions for Chrome, Firefox, and Edge that provide devtools for TanStack Query, allowing you to inspect and debug queries, mutations, and cache state directly in browser DevTools.

Links:

- <img alt="Chrome logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TanStack/query/refs/heads/main/media/browser-logos/chrome.svg" width="12" height="12" /> [Devtools for Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/tanstack-query-devtools/annajfchloimdhceglpgglpeepfghfai)
- <img alt="Firefox logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TanStack/query/refs/heads/main/media/browser-logos/firefox.svg" width="12" height="12" /> [Devtools for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tanstack-query-devtools/)
- <img alt="Edge logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TanStack/query/refs/heads/main/media/browser-logos/edge.svg" width="12" height="12" /> [Devtools for Edge](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/tanstack-query-devtools/edmdpkgkacmjopodhfolmphdenmddobj)

## GraphQL Code Generator

Generate React Query hooks from your GraphQL schema

Link: https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen

## Hey API

The OpenAPI to TypeScript codegen. Generate clients, SDKs, validators, and more.

Link: https://heyapi.dev/openapi-ts/plugins/tanstack-query

## Http-wizard

End-to-end type-safe Fastify API with typeScript magic ✨

Link: https://http-wizard.com

## Kubb

Generate SDKs for all your APIs

Link: https://www.kubb.dev/

## NgQuery

Query adapter for Angular

Link: https://ngneat.github.io/query/

## Normy

Automatic normalization and data updates for data fetching libraries

Link: https://github.com/klis87/normy

## OpenAPI codegen

A tool for generating code based on an OpenAPI schema.

Link: https://github.com/fabien0102/openapi-codegen

## OpenAPI Qraft React

Generate type-safe API clients and Hooks for TanStack Query directly from OpenAPI Documents.
Zero-runtime overhead, Proxy-based design, seamless SSR support, and full TanStack Query functionality.

Link: https://github.com/OpenAPI-Qraft/openapi-qraft

## OpenAPI React Query codegen

Generate TanStack Query hooks based on an OpenAPI specification file.

Link: https://github.com/7nohe/openapi-react-query-codegen

### OpenAPI zod client

Generate a zodios client from an OpenAPI specification

Link: https://github.com/astahmer/openapi-zod-client

## openapi-fetch

A 2KB min, typesafe fetch wrapper that uses static TypeScript type inference and no runtime checks.

Link: https://openapi-ts.dev/openapi-react-query/

## oRPC

Easy to build APIs that are end-to-end type-safe and adhere to OpenAPI standards.

Link: https://orpc.unnoq.com/docs/integrations/tanstack-query

## Orval

Generate TypeScript client from OpenAPI specifications

Link: https://orval.dev/

## Query Key factory

A library for creating typesafe standardized query keys, useful for cache management in `@tanstack/query`

Link: https://github.com/lukemorales/query-key-factory

## Rapini

🥬 OpenAPI to React Query (or SWR) & Axios

Link: https://github.com/rametta/rapini

## React Query Kit

🕊️ A toolkit for ReactQuery that makes ReactQuery hooks reusable and typesafe

Link: https://github.com/liaoliao666/react-query-kit

## React Query Rewind

Time travel and visualize state during development

Link: https://reactqueryrewind.com/

## React Query Swagger

Generate React Query hooks based on Swagger API definitions

Link: https://github.com/Shaddix/react-query-swagger

## Suspensive React Query

Enhances React Query with Suspense support, allowing for simpler and more declarative data fetching

Link: https://suspensive.org/docs/react-query/motivation

## tRPC

End-to-end typesafe APIs made easy

Link: https://trpc.io/

## ts-rest

Incrementally adoptable type-safety for your new and existing APIs

Link: https://ts-rest.com/

## wagmi

React Hooks for Ethereum based on `@tanstack/react-query`

Link: https://wagmi.sh/

## zodios

End-to-end typesafe REST API toolbox

Link: https://www.zodios.org/
